.TH "dsc-datatool-transformer reranger" "7"
.SH NAME
ReRanger \- Rewrite ranged or numerical statistics into other ranges.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY dsc-datatool
.B \-\-transform
.I """;ReRanger;<dataset>;<options...>"""
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
This transformer can re-range values in datasets to new rangers.

It supports both values that are a single numerical value or one that is
already a range itself
.RI ( num\-num ).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B dataset
See
.IR dsc-datatool (1)
on how to specify which dataset(s) to run the transformer on.
.TP
.BR key =[low|mid|high]
Specify what value to use when re-ranging an already ranged value
.RI (low\-high).

Default to
.IR mid ,
which is high minus low then divided by 2.
.TP
.BR func =<func>
The function to use when aggregating multiple values into a new ranger,
default to
.IR sum .

Currently only one function exists,
.IR sum ,
which adds the sum of all values into the new range.
.TP
.B allow_invalid_keys
If given the "invalid" keys/values that is not numerical or a range will be
passed through unmodified.
.TP
.BR range =</num>
The new range given as
.I /number
(required).

For example
.I range=/64
will re-range all values into buckets of 64, 0-63, 64-127 and so on.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dsc-datatool (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Jerry Lundström, DNS-OARC
.LP
Maintained by DNS-OARC
.LP
.RS
.I https://www.dns-oarc.net/tools/dsc
.RE
.LP
.SH BUGS
For issues and feature requests please use:
.LP
.RS
\fIhttps://github.com/DNS-OARC/dsc-datatool/issues\fP
.RE
.LP
For question and help please use:
.LP
.RS
\fIhttps://lists.dns-oarc.net/mailman/listinfo/dsc\fP
.RE
.LP
