.TH "dsc-datatool-output prometheus" "7"
.SH NAME
Prometheus \- Prometheus output.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY dsc-datatool
.B \-\-output
.I """;Prometheus;<options...>"""
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
This output generates Prometheus importable output to stdout or to a specified
file.
.SS Prometheus' node_exporter
This output can be used together with Prometheus'
.IR node_exporter 's
Textfile Collector to automate statistics gathering but some specific
setup and requirements must be meet.

You must hide the timestamp with option
.B timestamp=hide
because timestamps are not supported by the Textfile Collector.

You must make sure only one XML file from a server+node combination is
processed at a time.
Because otherwise you will get multiple data point for the same metric
and this will generate errors from the Textfile Collector, since it does
not support timestamps and cannot separate the measurements.

You must make sure that only one file (per server+node combo) is generated
for the Textfile Collector to read, and it should be the same between runs.
See Textfile Collectors documentation how to setup that atomically.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR timestamp =[hide|start|stop]
Choose which timestamp from the dataset to use in the Prometheus output to
specify when the metrics took place.

Default to
.I start
timestamp.
.TP
.BR file =<filename>
Specify a file to output to instead of stdout.
.TP
.BR append
If given, the output will be appended to the file specified rather then
overwritten.
.TP
.BR prefix =<string>
Use the given string as prefix on all metric names.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dsc-datatool (1)

.I https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/

.I https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter#textfile-collector
.SH AUTHORS
Jerry Lundström, DNS-OARC
.LP
Maintained by DNS-OARC
.LP
.RS
.I https://www.dns-oarc.net/tools/dsc
.RE
.LP
.SH BUGS
For issues and feature requests please use:
.LP
.RS
\fIhttps://github.com/DNS-OARC/dsc-datatool/issues\fP
.RE
.LP
For question and help please use:
.LP
.RS
\fIhttps://lists.dns-oarc.net/mailman/listinfo/dsc\fP
.RE
.LP
