.TH "dsc-datatool" "1"
.SH NAME
dsc-datatool \- Tool for converting, exporting, merging and transforming DSC data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY dsc-datatool
.OP \-h
.OP \-c CONF
.OP \-s SERVER
.OP \-n NODE
.OP \-x XML
.OP \-d DAT
.OP \-\-dataset DATASET
.OP \-o OUTPUT
.OP \-t TRANSFORM]
.OP \-g GENERATOR
.OP \-\-list
.OP \-\-skipped\-key SKIPPED_KEY
.OP \-\-skipped\-sum\-key SKIPPED_SUM_KEY
.OP \-v
.OP \-V
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tool for converting, exporting, merging and transforming DSC data.

Please have a look at the wiki article on how to set this up using
Influx DB and Grafana.

https://github.com/DNS-OARC/dsc-datatool/wiki/Setting-up-a-test-Grafana
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.BI "-c " CONF ", --conf " CONF
Not implemented
.TP
.BI "-s " SERVER ", --server " SERVER
Specify the server for where the data comes from. (required)
.TP
.BI "-n " NODE ", --node " NODE
Specify the node for where the data comes from. (required)
.TP
.BI "-x " XML ", --xml " XML
Read DSC data from the given file or directory, can be specified multiple
times.
If a directory is given then all files ending with .xml will be read.
.TP
.BI "-d " DAT ", --dat " DAT
Read DSC data from the given directory, can be specified multiple times.
Note that the DAT format is depended on the filename to know what type of
data it is.
.TP
.BI "--dataset " DATASET
Specify that only the list of datasets will be processed, the list is
comma separated and the option can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BI "-o " OUTPUT ", --output " OUTPUT
.I OUTPUT
has the following format that uses
.I output
to specify the output module and
.I sep
as an options separator.

.EX
  <sep><output>[<sep>option=value...]>
.EE

Can be specified multiple times to output to more then one.

Use
.B dsc-datatool --list
to see a list of modules and the man-page of each output for information
about options.
.TP
.BI "-t " TRANSFORM ", --transform " TRANSFORM
.I TRANSFORM
has the following format that uses
.I name
to specify the transformer module and
.I sep
as an options separator.
The
.I datasets
field can specify which dataset to run the transformer on, or use
.I *
to specify all datasets.

.EX
  <sep><name><sep><datasets>[<sep>option=value...]>
.EE

Can be specific multiple times to chain transformation, the chain will be
executed in the order on command line with one exception.
All transformations specified for dataset
.I *
will be executed before named dataset transformations.

Use
.B dsc-datatool --list
to see a list of modules and the man-page of each transformer for
information about options.
For a list of datasets see the DSC configuration that creates the XML files
or the documentation for the Presenter that creates the DAT files.
.TP
.BI "-g " GENERATOR ", --generator " GENERATOR
.I GENERATOR
has two formats, one to specify a comma separated list of generators
and one that uses
.I name
to specify the generator module and
.I sep
as an options separator.

.EX
  <name>[,<name>,...]

  <sep><name>[<sep>option=value...]>
.EE

This option can be given multiple times.

Use
.B dsc-datatool --list
to see a list of modules and the man-page of each generator for
information about options.
.TP
.B --list
List the available generators, transformers and outputs then exit.
.TP
.BI "--skipped-key " SKIPPED_KEY
Set the special DSC skipped key. (default to "-:SKIPPED:-")
.TP
.BI "--skipped-sum-key " SKIPPED_SUM_KEY
Set the special DSC skipped sum key. (default to "-:SKIPPED_SUM:-")
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Increase the verbose level, can be given multiple times.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Display version and exit.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
dsc-datatool \\
  --server "$SERVER" \\
  --node "$NODE" \\
  --output ";InfluxDB;file=influx.txt;dml=1;database=dsc" \\
  --transform ";Labler;*;yaml=$HOME/labler.yaml" \\
  --transform ";ReRanger;rcode_vs_replylen;range=/64;pad_to=5" \\
  --transform ";ReRanger;qtype_vs_qnamelen;range=/16;pad_to=3" \\
  --transform ";ReRanger;client_port_range;key=low;range=/2048;pad_to=5" \\
  --transform ";ReRanger;edns_bufsiz,priming_queries;key=low;range=/512;pad_to=5;allow_invalid_keys=1" \\
  --transform ";ReRanger;priming_responses;key=low;range=/128;pad_to=4" \\
  --transform ";NetRemap;client_subnet,client_subnet2,client_addr_vs_rcode,ipv6_rsn_abusers;net=8" \\
  --generator client_subnet_country \\
  --generator ";client_subnet_authority;fetch=yes" \\
  --xml "$XML"
.EE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dsc-datatool.conf (5),
.BI dsc-datatool- [ generator | transformer | output ]
.BR <name> (7)
.SH AUTHORS
Jerry Lundström, DNS-OARC
.LP
Maintained by DNS-OARC
.LP
.RS
.I https://www.dns-oarc.net/tools/dsc
.RE
.LP
.SH BUGS
For issues and feature requests please use:
.LP
.RS
\fIhttps://github.com/DNS-OARC/dsc-datatool/issues\fP
.RE
.LP
For question and help please use:
.LP
.RS
\fIhttps://lists.dns-oarc.net/mailman/listinfo/dsc\fP
.RE
.LP
